.TH WRAITH 1 "April 2026" "wraith 1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
wraith \- silent network threat detection and host enumeration

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wraith
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fItarget\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wraith
is a passive-first network threat scanner that combines host discovery,
port enumeration, and CVE signature matching into a single zero-dependency binary.
It is designed for security engineers and sysadmins who need fast, low-noise
visibility into what's running on a local or remote network segment.

wraith uses a layered probe strategy: ARP sweep for host discovery,
TCP SYN scanning for port enumeration, and offline CVE database matching
for threat classification \(em without sending a single packet to external infrastructure.

.SH COMMANDS

.TP
.B scan \fI[target]\fR
Scan a host or CIDR range. Performs host discovery followed by port scanning
and threat analysis. Target defaults to \fB192.168.1.0/24\fR if not specified.

.TP
.B probe \fI[target]\fR
Deep port probe with service version fingerprinting. Slower than scan but
produces more detailed service identification data.

.TP
.B monitor
Passive continuous monitoring mode. Listens on all active interfaces for
anomalous traffic patterns and new host appearances. Runs indefinitely
until interrupted with SIGINT (Ctrl+C).

.TP
.B help
Display usage information.

.TP
.B version
Print version and build metadata.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-stealth
Enable stealth mode. Increases probe intervals and randomizes packet timing
to reduce detection likelihood by IDS/IPS systems. Significantly slower.

.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose output. Prints raw probe results and intermediate state during scanning.

.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " \fIms\fR"
Probe timeout in milliseconds. Default: \fB3000\fR. Lower values speed up scans
on reliable networks; increase for high-latency or unreliable links.

.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-ports " \fIrange\fR"
Port range to scan. Accepts:
.RS
.IP \(bu 4
\fBcommon\fR \(em top 1000 ports by prevalence (default)
.IP \(bu 4
\fBall\fR \(em all 65535 ports
.IP \(bu 4
\fB80,443,8080\fR \(em comma-separated explicit list
.IP \(bu 4
\fB1-1024\fR \(em hyphen-delimited range
.RE

.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " \fIfile\fR"
Write scan results to \fIfile\fR in structured text format.

.SH EXAMPLES

Scan the default local subnet:
.RS
.B wraith scan
.RE

Scan a specific CIDR range:
.RS
.B wraith scan 10.0.0.0/24
.RE

Deep probe a single host with all ports:
.RS
.B wraith probe 192.168.1.1 --ports all --verbose
.RE

Stealth scan with extended timeout:
.RS
.B wraith scan 192.168.1.1 --stealth --timeout 5000
.RE

Continuous passive monitoring:
.RS
.B wraith monitor
.RE

.SH EXIT STATUS

.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B 1
Error (argument parsing failure, permission denied, etc.).

.SH FILES

.TP
.I ~/.config/wraith/config.toml
Optional user configuration file. Overrides compiled defaults for timeout,
preferred port ranges, and output formatting.

.SH NOTES
wraith requires no root or CAP_NET_RAW privileges for basic host discovery
on most systems. Full SYN scanning may require elevated privileges depending
on your OS and network configuration.

wraith does not phone home, collect telemetry, or transmit data outside
your local network. The CVE signature database is bundled at compile time.

.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/yourhandle/wraith/issues

.SH AUTHOR
Written as an open source project. See CONTRIBUTORS in the repository.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR nmap (1),
.BR masscan (1),
.BR arp-scan (1)
